VGA Controller

    Assumptions:
        I'll be working exclusively with a 640x480 area. Potentially a 
    
    Useful Links:

        The DE0-CV manual actually has a handy chart as well for VGA mode under the VGA section.
    https://www.altera.com/content/dam/altera-www/global/en_US/portal/dsn/42/doc-us-dsnbk-42-1504012210-de0-cv-user-manual.pdf
            
        Digilent explanation of VGA. 
        + Has a useful table of microseconds for the spec.
        https://learn.digilentinc.com/Documents/269

        This page also has a great chart for the VGA spec.
        https://eewiki.net/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=15925278
        
        Additional Timing information, truly useful
        http://tinyvga.com/vga-timing/640x480@60Hz
        
        Slide 29 has a great diagram
        http://www.eng.ucy.ac.cy/theocharides/Courses/ECE664/VGA.pdf
        

    For a 640 x 480 display area, I see a lot of information stating to use a 25.175 MHZ clock
    

SDRAM Controller

    In theory, this would be ideal for this usage. Storing a grid and quickly accessing the data.
    However, for the usage here, it may be easier/faster to just implement a fixed latch grid.
    
    I'll mark it down as a nice to have.

    
[ Regrets and Ramblings]

Quartus.... Oh my god, I can't even compile the VGA demonstration for the DE0-CV.
It seems that it cannot find a pll library file definition, uhh. 

Maybe reinstalling for the 4th time will do it. . . . Nah. Let's try using Quartus 17.0 lite instead
The documentation and community for Quartus so far has been extremely lacking. 
Maybe there's a manual database somewhere, or I'm using incorrect terminology,
but it's impossible to find quick answers for things at the moment. 

Downloading Quartus sucks. Takes forever across too many files. 

I sure do hope VCC and GND don't screw me later, I don't know what voltage VCC is, or where to set it, sooooo.

Dope, the demo compiled on Quartus prime 17.1 lite. 


Alright, it looks like Quartus Prime is showing the MegaWizard dialogues now. Looking at the configuration of one of snake FPGA sources, they seem to be using 50% duty at 25MHz to drive the VGA controller, and snake game on the side.

I'm not sure how important a Phase Locked Loop is at the moment. I have the 50mhzto1mhz verilog script from Lab10, I think I can use that generate my signal.

Why is every search, file, link, or document that is associated with Quartus a friggin' PDF. It's always a PDF. My downloads folder is filled with a dozen PDF's while the tabs are all blanked, because it decided to download rather than display. I'm glad to have the information at least, but I can't bookmark or easily access these PDF's.
If the PDF renderer in my browser crashes, it's bad times.

Quartus Prime has this new sidebar called IP Catalog, which I think holds a bunch of prebuilt schematics/verilog files. I feel like using that would be cheating, so I'm going to ignore it for now.

Assigning Pins in Quartus Prime 17 doesn't immediately go to the following line when you press enter.
Making it incredibly tedious to assign a lot of pins at once.
Hell, it doesn't even respond to arrow keys well, jumping back to the top after every entry.
And for some reason pressing Tab will immediately put the current entry into the NEXT line, without even formatting the line. Causing more trouble, as you have to delete that entry before you can assign that pin to the intended entry.

Quartus automatically connecting wires is starting to really piss me off. Doing huge drags of wires is impractical as a random join may end up somewhere if you happen to cross a : Corner, Input, Output, or an already joined section. It's driving me insane.

OH. MY. GOD. QUARTUS PRIME WAVEFORM GENERATOR THING WON'T WORK IF I RENAME THE FILE ON SAVE. WHAT? IT WON'T EVEN USE THE NEW NAME WHEN I REGENERATE THE TESTBENCH. WHY WHY WHYY

Quartus crashed again....

For some reason 2 of my flip flops are triggering, not only OFF CLOCK, but also without any apparent source in the waveform? What? Why? Where is it even getting the signal to shift? Why doesn't this error occur in the schematic that is very similar? Why is it only these 2 flip flops? WHY . 


